**Question answering and commonsense reasoning** Another task that requires aspects of single and multi-sentence reasoning is question answering. We use the recently released RACE dataset [30],consisting of English passages with associated questions from middle and high school exams. This corpus has been shown to contain more reasoning type questions that other datasets like CNN [19] or SQuaD [47], providing the perfect evaluation for our model which is trained to handle long-range contexts. In addition, we evaluate on the Story Cloze Test [40], which involves selecting the correct ending to multi-sentence stories from two options. On these tasks, our model again outperforms the previous best results by significant margins - up to 8.9% on Story Cloze, and 5.7% overall on RACE.
This demonstrates the ability of our model to handle long-range contexts effectively.


**Semantic Similarity** Semantic similarity (or paraphrase detection) tasks involve predicting whether two sentences are semantically equivalent or not. The challenges lie in recognizing rephrasing of concepts, understanding negation, and handling syntactic ambiguity. We use three datasets for this task – the Microsoft Paraphrase corpus (MRPC) [14] (collected from news sources), the Quora
Question Pairs (QQP) dataset [9], and the Semantic Textual Similarity benchmark (STS-B) [6].We obtain state-of-the-art results on two of the three semantic similarity tasks (Table 4) with a 1 point absolute gain on STS-B. The performance delta on QQP is significant, with a 4.2% absolute improvement over Single-task BiLSTM + ELMo + Attn.


**Classification** Finally, we also evaluate on two different text classification tasks. The Corpus of Linguistic Acceptability (CoLA) [65] contains expert judgements on whether a sentence is grammatical or not, and tests the innate linguistic bias of trained models. The Stanford Sentiment Treebank (SST-2) [54], on the other hand, is a standard binary classification task. Our model obtains an score of 45.4 on CoLA, which is an especially big jump over the previous best result of 35.0,showcasing the innate linguistic bias learned by our model. The model also achieves 91.3% accuracy on SST-2, which is competitive with the state-of-the-art results. We also achieve an overall score of 72.8 on the GLUE benchmark, which is significantly better than the previous best of 68.9.
